Not Nyout
=========

What started as a friendly Nyout race has turned ugly after RED called BLUE's mother fat - now it's a fight to the death!  You must use your horses to eliminate those of each other player and be the last one standing.

Pieces
------
Nyout Board
16 horses, 4 of each of 4 different colors
1d4
1d6
1d8
1d10

Starting
--------

1. Nyout is played on a Nyout board.
2. Two, three or four players can play.  Each player picks one of the squares labeled N, S, E or W as his home space.  If there are only two players they should start opposite from one another.  
3. Players roll 1d4 to decide who starts.  The player with the highest roll starts and then players take turns going in a clockwise direction.

A Turn
------
4. At the beginning of each turn, the player rolls Xd4 where X is the number of horse groups he controls on the board, plus 1 if he has any horses left in his stable.  (Note: multiple horses joined
together only count as a single group.)
5. For each roll, the player may move a horse than many spaces, or summon a new horse up to once per turn.  

Summoning Horses
----------------
6.  If a player has any horses left in her stable, she may use one of her rolls to summon a new horse onto the board.  The horse starts counterclockwise of her home space the number of spaces equivilant to the roll of the die used to summon the horse.

Moving Horses
-------------
7. The dice throws may be used to move horses a number of spaces equivilant to the number shown on the die.  Multiple die rolls may be used on a single horse.
8. Horses always move around the outer ring of squares in a counterclockwise direction.
9. If a horse is sitting on N, S, E or W, it may move onto the center squares.  A horse cannont turn towards the center in the middle of a movement.
10. Horses may move in any direction while on the center squares.
11. If a horse must pass an enemy horse, an additional movement is used.  For instance, to move 2 squares, with an enemy in the way, it would take a roll of 3.

Joining Horses
--------------
12. If a player's horse lands on the same square as another of his horses, they may be joined into one group.  A group can have up to 4 horses joined together.
13. Horses groups may be seperated on a player's turn, after they have rolled their dice.

Combat
------
12. If a players horse lands on the square as an enemy's horse, it initiates combat.
13. Combat is determined by dice rolls.  The die rolled by each player is determined by the number of horses in his group:

	1 horse:  d4
	2 horses: d6
	3 horses: d8
	4 horses: d10
	
14. The player who initiated combat gets a +2 bonus added to his die roll.
15. The winner is the player with the higher total number.  If it is a tie, the victory goes to the player who didn't initiate combat.  The loser loses one horse from the horse group that was in
combat.

Ending the Game
---------------
16. The game ends when only a single player has any horses left on the board.
17. Alternatively, if the game is down to two players, each with a single horse, then 3 full rounds after the last horse was taken the game ends, and the winner is the last player to take a horse.
